# Unlock the GPU # A Manifesto for a developer-Led Investor Campaign for Open
# Compute and AMD Shareholder Value

## Why This Matters

NVIDIA's CUDA ecosystem has monopolized the GPU computing market for over a
decade, letting one company dictate prices and pace of innovation. Developers
know the pain: AMD's promising hardware is held back by software and ecosystem
gaps—driver instability, poor compatibility, and a confusing, fragmented stack.
As a result, programmers are forced to buy NVIDIA, and AMD's huge potential
remains untapped.

This chronic gap is clear to every engineer who has tried to port code or build
AI on AMD. Yet, financial markets remain slow to recognize the scale of this
opportunity: AMD's valuation does not reflect what could be unlocked if it
became the default alternative to CUDA. There is a disconnect between what
developers experience daily and what investors expect. This is why we need a
developer-led investor campaign—to make the value case impossible to ignore.

## The Investment Opportunity

- **The "Nvidia Tax"**: NVIDIA's monopoly lets it charge up to 5x over hardware
cost. Enterprises, researchers, and cloud providers desperately want a credible
alternative.

- **AMD's Hidden Potential**: AMD hardware already offers leading
price/performance. Closing the software gap—making ROCm and HIP as seamless as
CUDA—would unlock billions in new sales, data center wins, and ecosystem
momentum.

- **Rising Demand**: AI, ML, and scientific computing are exploding. Even modest
progress on AMD's stack would yield outsized returns.

- **Activist Leverage**: Shareholder and developer pressure can catalyze the
management changes and focused investment AMD needs to seize this moment.


## Bridging the Trust Gap

AMD's GPU hardware is strong — often offering better price/performance than
NVIDIA. But its software efforts, despite being open-source and
well-intentioned, have left developers frustrated. From broken drivers to
missing features and inconsistent support, the community has been burned too
many times.

Still, recent changes — including new libraries and hints of leadership focus —
suggest a turnaround might be possible. But trust isn't built with code alone.
It takes transparency, continuity, and accountability.

Our campaign exists to help AMD rebuild that trust. We believe AMD's management
wants to win back developer goodwill — and that this campaign can help them do
it faster, more credibly, and more visibly.

We're not just calling for investment. We're offering a structure of support: a
coalition of developers and shareholders ready to rally behind real change. By
combining developer insight with investor leverage, we can help AMD finally
deliver on its promise — and show the world that this time is different.

## Our Demands

1. **Dedicated Investment**: Earmark and publicly report a specific annual
budget for ROCm and open GPU software, matching the scale of the problem.

2. **Executive Accountability**: Appoint a VP for Open Compute Software, with
board visibility and clear authority.

3. **Transparency**: Publish a clear, regularly updated roadmap for GPU software
support; report progress and budget utilization quarterly.

4. **Unified Platform**: End fragmentation. Prioritize a single, stable stack
and developer-first experience. Adopt and support open standards (e.g., SYCL)
and cross-vendor portability.

5. **Community Engagement**: Form an external developer/customer advisory board
and fund hackathons, bug bounties, and innovation grants.

## Preliminary Action Plan

*This plan is a starting point—join us to shape and refine it further.*

- **Draft Shareholder Resolution**: We are preparing a non-binding shareholder
resolution for AMD's 2026 annual meeting. We invite developers, investors, and
legal experts to collaborate on drafting this resolution.

- **Amplify the Developer Voice**: We will organize and amplify developer
experiences, coordinate the #UnlockGPU campaign, and engage prominent figures
in the GPU computing space to build support and formulate specific technical
changes needed for AMD's software stack.

- **Monitor and Demand Progress**: We will establish benchmarks and demand
quarterly reporting on ROCm progress, budget utilization, and developer
satisfaction metrics.

- **Build Strategic Alliances**: We will advocate for AMD to collaborate with
Intel, cloud providers, and open-source leaders on cross-vendor standards and
tools.

- **Engage Activist Investors**: We will reach out to experienced activist
investors with a history of running similar campaigns (such as Elliott
Management, Third Point) to amplify pressure and provide strategic guidance.

## How to Join

1. **Become a Shareholder**: Buy AMD stock via your broker.

2. **Register Support**: Sign up at UnlockGPU.org *(coming soon)* for campaign
updates and coordination.

3. **Vote Your Shares**: Pledge support at AMD AGMs and through proxy voting.
[How to vote your proxy as a retail investor](https://example.com).

4. **Vote and Participate**: Use your proxy votes, submit and endorse proposals,
and attend AGMs (virtually or in person).

5. **Shape the Agenda**: Suggest new actions, budget targets, or leadership
changes through campaign channels.

## The Payoff

- **Unlock billions** in shareholder value as AMD wins market share from NVIDIA.

- **Lead a historic transformation**—ending GPU vendor lock-in and opening up
compute for all.

- **Ensure the future** of AI, ML, and scientific research is built on open,
competitive, and developer-friendly foundations.

---

**The time for action is now.** Developers see the need. Investors can unlock
*the value. Join us—vote, organize, and build the future together.





